
of contaminanr migration are unique to each country and are largely unknown. A partnership consisting of local geologists and hydrogeologists and their counterparts at lowa State and its consortium institutions would bring together the expertise to create and describe the 3D representations of geological structures, stratigraphic units, and facies and to contribute to our general understanding of fluid movement in heterogeneous geological en vironmen ts.



                        Generating local scientiti~ infr~structure

      Environmental and earth sciences are by nature multidisciplinary. By being closely positioned to practical applications, earth alld environmental sciences offer rich opportunities to solve significant humanitariall problems local to developing countries, which provides incentives for scientists of these countries to remain at home. Scientific respect and prestige are accrued by environmental scientists from developing countries who participate in international collaboration because of the local perspective and data they bring to the collaboration. This respect and prestige will more likely be maintained if they retain their linkage to their home colleagues and research domain.

      Solutions to local environmental problellls in developing countries through international collaboration will be noticed by local policy makers who may, in turn, be more disposed to invest in local science infrastructure. These policy makers, who may harbor suspicions about unilateral foreign involvement in researching their environment, would likely welcome opportunities to take charge of their own environmental management through support for their own scientists.



                                  Addressing loc~l needs

      Developing countries have urgent need for both basic and applied research, but may not have the luxury of assembling large institutes for the purpose of pure and basic research. The environmental and earth sciences, as applied to such problems as groundwater contamination, offer opportunities for basic theoretical and laboratory studies in classical physics, chemistry, geophysics, and related areas which at the same time offer applications that contribute more immediately to national needs. Techniques used in developing countries for marginal economic benefit, such as the use of agricultural shelterbelts, will have a much more significant application in Sub Saharan Africa, where it is used to reclaim productive land from the desert margin and contribute to local food self sufficiency.

      Another example of applying physically based principles to local needs is the use of regional-scale meteorological modeling for addressing local problems relating to
