
      One of many examp/es of physical sciences being brought to bear on environmental research is understanding the nature of turbulent flow through an agricultural shelterbelt consisting of a line of trees or shrubs. The process of turbulence production, transport and dissipation within and in the /ee of a living, aeroelastic barrier is a non-linear problem in basic fluids that is not well understood but that lends itself to numerical simulation, physical ~laboratory) simulation and field studies. Success, even partial success, in understanding this problem will lead to better design of shelterbelts for modifying the microclima te ~e. 9., reducing windspeed, decreasing evapotranspiration, modifying temperature, enhancing downward transport of CO2 into the crop) for sustaining and improving agricultural production.

      Recent advances in the procedures and computational platforms for numerical simulation and declines in hardware costs have brought computer modeling of environmental systems within reach of scientists and public managers in developing countries. Lack of local human resources is the primary limitation to realizing more widespread use of such advanced technologies in these countries. Workshops and individualized scientific collaboration through IITAP will facilitate the development of human resources for developing countries.



                                 Building p~rtnerships

      IITAP, through environmental and earth sciences, will have unique opportunities for linkages with scientists from developing countries. Each country or region of the globe has distinct uniqueness in meteorology, geology, climate, soils, and biophysical ecology. Many of these unique features could or should be topics for scientific study in a world that seeks to be more environmentally responsible and a scientific community that seeks a broader expression of natural diversity. International research programs on environmental problems in developing countries bring scientists who have detailed knowledge of their home regions, to the research table on equal basis with scientists from developed countries, who may have access to more sophisticated tools for inquiry. Environmental and earth sciences readily lend themselves to field projects in both developed and developing countries for individual investigation and for comparative analysis. Collaborative research that brings together new technology with local environmental expertise leads to mutually dependent partnerships.

      Contamination of groundwater and surface water is an example of an environmental problem shared by all countries but one that is particularly acute in developing countries. Computer simulation of contaminant plumes and modeling their migration in groundwater are well-established technologies in the US. However, geological environments and their control
